# CS-320

How can I ensure that my code, program, or software is functional and secure?

Utilize resources and be detailed in whatever step of the coding/testing process is being worked. There have been several time that my coding has run across bugs, defects, and mistakes and it has taken hours to figure out what the problem was. This was due to bad practices when coding. This can include anything from not including comments, not intermitent testing, and not continuously checking the code as written. To ensure that my code, program, or software is functional and secure I have to be detailed oriented when writing my code. Write a line or two and then test, rinse and repeat. This can ensure that no matter how far I get into the software that if I make a mistake, it is only a oouple lines that I know are the issue. I would also go back to the the very basics of organization and readability. It becomes so much easier to understand what is happening in the code if it has clear comments, organization, and readability. To make the program secure I would utilize encryption and decryption standards such as AES and symmetric or asymmetri standards. Generating self signed certificates and creating checksum verifications will add layers of protection to anyone trying to communicate.

How do I interpret user needs and incorporate them into a program?

Software engineers have to be efficient when it comes to the needs of the users and the companies that they are creating software for. To ensure that there is no confusion between what the user or client wants, questions need to be asked in order to secure as many details as possible before the coding begins. If this step it not utilized then there is a possiblilty the client changes something a long the way and now the developer has to spend for time and resources in order to get it done. 

How do I approach designing software?

My approach to designing software I believe is more than likely pretty similar to others. Before beginning a project I want to have all the information thaty is possible for the project at hand. Once I have attained that information and the client is 100% set on this design then I will start the coding process. However, I would prefer to use an agile method when designing my products. I believe that I perform at my best when utilizing sprints as I am able to consistently have peers check my work, I can set short term goals, and continuously test my code every couple of lines in order to be efficient and successful. There will always be some room for error or correction as the user or client may change their mind at any point on how they want the product to function. Being able to control what I can in that moment is the easiest way to accept and perform what is needed. Utilizing resources is another part of my design process. I am always intrigued to learn as much as possible when it comes to coding and tips and tricks that can heko in creating more efficient programs. That is why I love to utilize online resources and tutorials. I find that stackoverflow and geeksforgeeks always has so much information that can help when confused on something. I am also a visual learner so being able to watch someone perform what you are trying to do helps in my development and growth in my coding abilities. 
